[docs] document Native Session Properties (#22334)
prestodb/presto: presto-docs/src/main/sphinx/prestissimo/prestissimo-features.rst

Old task is defined as a PrestoTask which has not received heartbeat for at least
``old-task-cleanup-ms``, or is not running and has an end time more than
``old-task-cleanup-ms`` ago.

Session Properties
------------------

Defines all system session properties supported by native worker to ensure
that they are the source of truth and to differentiate them from Java based
session properties.

The following are the native session properties kept as the source of truth in prestissimo.

``driver_cpu_time_slice_limit_ms``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``1000``

> Native Execution only. The cpu time slice limit in ms that a driver thread.

Reviewer: change "cpu time slice limit in ms" to something less redundant. I'm not sure what's correct here, but, e.g. "wall clock time that the driver read runs before being killed." That specific language is likely wrong, but please do something like that for whatever is correct.

Author: corrected as suggested

> If not ``zero``, can continuously run without yielding.

Reviewer: If driver_cpu_time_slice_limit_ms is not zero, the worker can...

What if this is negative?

Author: upated and mentioned about the negative value case

> If it is ``zero``,then there is no limit.

Reviewer: space after comma

Author: updated

``legacy_timestamp``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``boolean``
* **Default value:** ``true``

Native Execution only. Use legacy TIME & TIMESTAMP semantics.
Warning: this will be removed.

``native_aggregation_spill_memory_threshold``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``0``

> Native Execution only. The max memory that a final aggregation can use before spilling.

Reviewer: max --> maximum
what units? Kb, Mb? bytes?

Author: updated

If it is ``0``, then there is no limit.

``native_debug_validate_output_from_operators``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``boolean``
* **Default value:** ``false``

If set to ``true``, then during execution of tasks, the output vectors of every operator are validated for consistency.
This is an expensive check so should only be used for debugging.

> It can help debug issues where malformed vector cause failures or crashes by helping identify which operator is generating them.

Reviewer: a malformed vector causes

``native_join_spill_enabled``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``boolean``
* **Default value:** ``true``

Native Execution only. Enable join spilling on native engine.

``native_join_spill_memory_threshold``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``0``

> Native Execution only. The max memory that hash join can use before spilling.

Reviewer: as above

If it is ``0``, then there is no limit.

``native_join_spiller_partition_bits``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``2``

Native Execution only. The number of bits (N) used to calculate the spilling partition number for hash join and RowNumber: ``2`` ^ N.

``native_max_spill_file_size``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``0``

> The max allowed spill file size. If it is ``0``, then there is no limit.

Reviewer: units?

Author: updated

``native_max_spill_level``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``4``

Native Execution only. The maximum allowed spilling level for hash join build.
0 is the initial spilling level, -1 means unlimited.

``native_order_by_spill_memory_threshold``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``0``

> Native Execution only. The max memory that order by can use before spilling.

Reviewer: ORDER BY
units?

Author: updated

If it is ``0``, then there is no limit.

``native_row_number_spill_enabled``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``boolean``
* **Default value:** ``true``

Native Execution only. Enable row number spilling on native engine.

``native_simplified_expression_evaluation_enabled``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``boolean``
* **Default value:** ``false``

Native Execution only. Enable simplified path in expression evaluation.

``native_spill_compression_codec``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``varchar``
* **Default value:** ``none``

> Native Execution only. The compression algorithm type to compress the spilled data.

Reviewer: delete "type"

Author: updated

> Supported compression codecs are: ZLIB, SNAPPY, LZO, ZSTD, LZ4 and GZIP. ``none`` means no compression.

Reviewer: codec --> CODEC

Author: updated

``native_spill_file_create_config``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``varchar``
* **Default value:** ``""``

Native Execution only. Config used to create spill files.

> This config is provided to underlying file system and the config is free form.

Reviewer: Is "config" right here? I'd expect configuration variable, or something like that. I think of config as all the properties.

Author: updated and corrected

Old task is defined as a PrestoTask which has not received heartbeat for at least
``old-task-cleanup-ms``, or is not running and has an end time more than
``old-task-cleanup-ms`` ago.

Session Properties
------------------

> Defines all system session properties supported by native worker to ensure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Suggest deleting this first sentence - it doesn't add meaning for the user that the topic heading Session Properties does not provide, and the "all" in "Defines all system session properties" is a strong promise to the user that we may not want to make.

> that they are the source of truth and to differentiate them from Java based

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> session properties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The following are the native session properties kept as the source of truth in prestissimo.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following are the native session properties for Prestissimo.
```

``driver_cpu_time_slice_limit_ms``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``1000``

> Native Execution only. ``driver_cpu_time_slice_limit_ms`` defines the maximum CPU time,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Native Execution only. Defines the maximum CPU time
```

> in milliseconds, that a driver thread is permitted to run before it must yield to other threads,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in milliseconds that a driver thread is permitted to run before it must yield to other threads,
```

Negative values are considered invalid and are treated as a request to use the system default setting,
which is ``1000`` ms in this case.

> Note: Setting the property to ``zero`` allows a thread to run indefinitely

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: Setting the property to ``0`` allows a thread to run indefinitely
```

> Setting this property to ``zero`` allows a thread to run indefinitely without yielding,

Reviewer 2: Consider moving this sentence "Setting this property to zero allows a thread to run indefinitely without yielding, which is not recommended in a shared environment as it can lead to resource contention. " after the sentence about negative values. I mocked this up in a local build and am including a screenshot to show what the suggestion looks like - along with adding lines before the Positive and Negative value sentences to left-justify them, break up the paragraph with negative space to make it easier for the reader to identify the values they should understand. 

(My suggestion also replaces "this property" with the property name.)

<img width="838" alt="Screenshot 2024-03-27 at 10 16 24 AM" src="https://github.com/prestodb/presto/assets/7013443/19bf5d0c-0bd6-4189-bb7f-f35af8da50bb">

Author: updated as suggested

Negative values are considered invalid and are treated as a request to use the system default setting,
which is ``1000`` ms in this case.

``legacy_timestamp``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``boolean``
* **Default value:** ``true``

> Native Execution only. Use legacy TIME & TIMESTAMP semantics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Native Execution only. Use legacy TIME and TIMESTAMP semantics.
```
Avoid the ampersand (&) character. For context and suggestions see [the Gitlab documentation style guide recommended word list entry for &](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/development/documentation/styleguide/word_list.html#).

> Warning: this will be removed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
In general, technical documentation should use the present tense, and describe only the current state of the software. For references, see the Google developer documentation style guide about [present tense](https://developers.google.com/style/tense), [Document future features](https://developers.google.com/style/future), and [Timeless documentation](https://developers.google.com/style/timeless-documentation).

``native_aggregation_spill_memory_threshold``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``0``

> Native Execution only. Specifies the maximum memory, in bytes,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Native Execution only. Specifies the maximum memory in bytes
```

that a final aggregation operation can utilize before it starts spilling to disk.
If set to ``0``, there is no limit, allowing the aggregation to consume unlimited memory resources,
which may impact system performance.

``native_debug_validate_output_from_operators``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``boolean``
* **Default value:** ``false``

If set to ``true``, then during the execution of tasks, the output vectors of every operator are validated for consistency.

> This is an expensive check and should only be used for debugging purposes.

Reviewer 2: Consider moving this sentence as a Note below the other two sentences to emphasize this for the reader.

Author: updated

It can help identify issues where a malformed vector causes failures or crashes, facilitating the debugging of operator output issues.

``native_join_spill_enabled``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``boolean``
* **Default value:** ``true``

Native Execution only. Enable join spilling on native engine.

``native_join_spill_memory_threshold``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``0``

Native Execution only. Specifies the maximum memory, in bytes, that a hash join operation can use before starting to spill to disk.
A value of ``0`` indicates no limit, permitting the join operation to use unlimited memory resources, which might affect overall system performance.

``native_join_spiller_partition_bits``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``2``

> Native Execution only. ``native_join_spiller_partition_bits`` specifies the number of bits (N)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Native Execution only. Specifies the number of bits (N)
```

used to calculate the spilling partition number for hash join and RowNumber operations.
The partition number is determined as ``2`` raised to the power of N, defining how data is partitioned during the spill process.

``native_max_spill_file_size``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``0``

> Specifies the maximum allowed spill file size, in bytes. If set to ``0``, there is no limit on the spill file size,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specifies the maximum allowed spill file size in bytes. If set to ``0``, there is no limit on the spill file size,
```

allowing spill files to grow as large as necessary based on available disk space.
Use ``native_max_spill_file_size`` to manage disk space usage during operations that require spilling to disk.

``native_max_spill_level``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``4``

Native Execution only. The maximum allowed spilling level for hash join build.

> 0 is the initial spilling level, -1 means unlimited.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``0`` is the initial spilling level, ``-1`` means unlimited.
```

> This setting is crucial for managing disk space usage during operations that require spilling to disk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use ``native_max_spill_file_size`` to manage disk space usage during operations that require spilling to disk.
```
Suggested change to imperative for clarity and readability.

``native_order_by_spill_memory_threshold``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``integer``
* **Default value:** ``0``

Native Execution only. Specifies the maximum memory, in bytes, that the `ORDER BY` operation can utilize before starting to spill data to disk.

> If set to ``0```, there is no limit on memory usage, potentially leading to large memory allocations for sorting operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If set to ``0``, there is no limit on memory usage, potentially leading to large memory allocations for sorting operations.
```
Nit: extra `.

> Configuring this threshold helps in managing memory usage more efficiently during `ORDER BY` operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use this threshold to manage memory usage more efficiently during `ORDER BY` operations.
```

``native_row_number_spill_enabled``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``boolean``
* **Default value:** ``true``

Native Execution only. Enable row number spilling on native engine.

``native_simplified_expression_evaluation_enabled``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``boolean``
* **Default value:** ``false``

Native Execution only. Enable simplified path in expression evaluation.

``native_spill_compression_codec``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``varchar``
* **Default value:** ``none``

Native Execution only. Specifies the compression CODEC used to compress spilled data.
Supported compression CODECs are: ZLIB, SNAPPY, LZO, ZSTD, LZ4, and GZIP.

> Setting this to ``none`` disables compression.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting this property to ``none`` disables compression.
```

``native_spill_file_create_config``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``varchar``
* **Default value:** ``""``

Native Execution only. Specifies the configuration parameters used to create spill files.
These parameters are provided to the underlying file system, allowing for customizable spill file creation based on the requirements of the environment.
The format and options of these parameters are determined by the capabilities of the underlying file system
and may include settings such as file location, size limits, and file system-specific optimizations.

``native_spill_write_buffer_size``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Type:** ``bigint``
* **Default value:** ``1048576``

Native Execution only. The maximum size in bytes to buffer the serialized spill data before writing to disk for IO efficiency.

> If set to zero, buffering is disabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If set to ``0``, buffering is disabled.
```
Suggestion for consistency with similar statements earlier in the doc such as line 296.
